OSDOCS-10866 Remove non-4.16 lifecycle information (#77337)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-16-release-notes.adoc

You must use {op-system} machines for the control plane, and you can use either {op-system} or {op-system-base} for compute machines.
//Removed the note per https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GRPA-3517

//Even-numbered release lifecycle verbiage

> For {product-title} {product-version}, the total available lifecycle is 24 months on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures, due to the Extended Update Support (EUS) phase for even-numbered releases. This 24-month lifecycle first applied to {product-title} version 4.14.

Reviewer: > This 24-month lifecycle first applied to {product-title} version 4.14.
Per https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#maintenancesupport, seems like the the 24-month lifecycle commences from 4.12, but applied to all arches from 4.14.

> For {product-title} {product-version}, the total available lifecycle is 24 months on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures, due to the Extended Update Support (EUS) phase for even-numbered releases. This 24-month lifecycle first applied to {product-title} version 4.14.

Reviewer 2: How about:

```suggestion
Starting from {product-title} 4.14, the Extended Update Support (EUS) phase for even-numbered releases increases the total available lifecycle to 24 months on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures.
```

> Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is available on all architecture variants of {product-title}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as _Additional EUS Term 2_, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is available on all architecture variants of {product-title}.
```

Reviewer 2: One small sugestion just to highlight the full term name.

Reviewer 2: LGTM otherwise. Thanks, Courtney!

Author: Thanks @dfitzmau!

> Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as _Additional EUS Term 2_, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is available on all architecture variants of {product-title}.

Reviewer 3: Nit - per the [SSG](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#non-breaking-spaces), there should be a non breaking space between Red and Hat:
```suggestion
Beyond this, Red{nbsp}Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as _Additional EUS Term 2_, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is available on all architecture variants of {product-title}.
```

Author: Fixed, thank you! @skopacz1

> Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is also available on all architecture variants of {product-title}.

Reviewer: The additional EUS commences with 4.14.

//Odd-numbered release lifecycle verbiage

> //Starting from {product-title} 4.12, the support lifecycle for odd-numbered releases, such as {product-title} 4.15, on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures is 18 months.

Reviewer: > Starting from {product-title} 4.12,

The statement seems not correct to me. The lifecycle of odd-numbered releases on 4.11 and earlier is also 18 months. I personally suggest dropping it.

Reviewer 2: Referencing old End-of-Life (EOL) releases would cause some confusion. As 4.12 is soon to reach EOL, I see what you mean.

Author: As the life cycle described applies to all versions still in support, I've dropped the "Starting from..." verbiage. I think this will be less confusing overall. What do you think? @shellyyang1989

> //For {product-title} {product-version}, the total available lifecycle is 16 months on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures. Even-numbered releases have Extended Update Support (EUS) phases that extend the available lifecycle to 24 or 36 months.

Reviewer: The lifecycle of non-eus versions seems to be 18 months.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//Starting from {product-title} 4.12/4.14, the EUS phase for odd-numbered relese, such as {product-title} 4.15, on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures is 18 months.
```

Reviewer 2: For OpenShift Container Platform 4.12 on x86_64 architecture, the EUS phase extends from  18 months to 24 months?

Reviewer 2: Hi @shellyyang1989 . The following statement for the add-on is still correct?

> Starting from OpenShift Container Platform 4.14, Red Hat offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is available on all architecture variants of OpenShift Container Platform.

Reviewer: >For OpenShift Container Platform 4.12 onwards fro odd-numbered releases on x86_64 architecture, the EUS phase extends from 18 months to 24 months?

For odd-numbered releases, they are not EUS releases, the lifecycle of them is 18 months.

Reviewer: >The following statement for the add-on is still correct?

Yes, it's correct.

Reviewer: - commencing with 4.8, all **even** numbered minor release are donated EUS releases (odd-numbered minor releases are not EUS releases)

- commencing with 4.12, **a six-month EUS phase** is applied to EUS releases, the total lifecycle is 24 months. EUS is provided with x86 on 4.12

- commencing with 4.14, EUS is provided with all arches

- commencing with 4.14, **an additional EUS Term 2 of 12 months** is provided with all arches, the total lifecycle is 36 months

You must use {op-system} machines for the control plane, and you can use either {op-system} or {op-system-base} for compute machines.
//Removed the note per https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GRPA-3517

> For {product-title} {product-version}, Red Hat offers a 6-month Extended Update Support (EUS) phase that extends the total available lifecycle from 18 months to 24 months on all supported architectures, including x86_64, 64-bit ARM (aarch64), IBM Power® (ppc64le), and IBM Z® (s390x) architectures. Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is also available on all architecture variants of OpenShift Container Platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For {product-title} {product-version}, Red Hat offers a 6-month Extended Update Support (EUS) phase that extends the total available lifecycle from 18 months to 24 months on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), BM Power® (`ppc64le`), and IBM Z® (`s390x`) architectures. Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is also available on all architecture variants of {product-title}.
```

Reviewer 4: BM Power® ? Is there still supposed to be an I?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, typo. We actually have attributes: {ibm-power-name} and {ibm-z-name}, which should be used as the IBM names recently went through a change.

For {product-title} {product-version}, Red Hat offers a 6-month Extended Update Support (EUS) phase that extends the total available lifecycle from 18 months to 24 months on all supported architectures, including x86_64, 64-bit ARM (aarch64), IBM Power® (ppc64le), and IBM Z® (s390x) architectures. Beyond this, Red Hat also offers a 12-month additional EUS add-on, denoted as Additional EUS Term 2, that extends the total available lifecycle from 24 months to 36 months. The Additional EUS Term 2 is also available on all architecture variants of OpenShift Container Platform.

> Starting with {product-title} 4.14, each EUS phase for even numbered releases on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures, has a total available lifecycle of 24 months.

Reviewer 2: "Starting with {product-title} 4.14, each EUS phase for even numbered releases on all supported architectures, including `x86_64`, 64-bit ARM (`aarch64`), {ibm-power-name} (`ppc64le`), and {ibm-z-name} (`s390x`) architectures, has a total available lifecycle of 24 months."

The "even numbered releases" was flagged as important in my original update, so does the 24 months apply to odd numbered releases also?

![Screenshot from 2024-06-12 15-00-08](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/f4fce632-debd-4115-8671-279ab7144f7b)

In [link](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift).

Author: I'll add that part back.

Reviewer: If the purpose of the change is to drop non-4.16 information, seems like the part is not needed

Reviewer 2: The "even numbered" part would be more important if we're dropping "4.16", IMO. It enforces the message that odd numbered releases do not receive this level of support. It would remove any misconceptions.

Author: Made another change after consulting with Kathryn.
